[1: under- or over-accompanied featherbeam; 1 hand 2 voices] Featherbeam
accompanied by slower-moving voice in same hand. First version with one-note
accompaniment that lasts entire duration of featherbeam. Second version with
one-note accompaniment that starts at beginning of featherbeam but stops before
featherbeam stops. Third version with one-note accompaniment that starts
exactly halfway through duration of featherbeam and stops when featherbeam
stops. Generalized version that accompanies featherbeam with arbitrary even
tuplet with first note of tuplet optionally rested.

[2: centroid-spaced figures; 1 voice] First version with three input
parameters: pitch-class set; ContourSpecifier (derived from
RegistrationSpecifier but with notions of absolute octave removed to allow
formalization of pure contour); centroid pitch. Figure contours pitch-classes
according to contour specifier in dummy octave; figure then octave-transposes
contoured figure to octave with best-match centroid. Generalized input: list of
1 or more pitch-class sets; list of 1 or more contour specifiers; list of 1 or
more centroids. Figure braids input and generates crossproduct. Indexing
crossproduct happens external to figure-maker.

NOTE: Generalize RegistrationSpecifier in several different ways:
    * centroid spacing
    * some type of ChordalSpacingSpecifier to select degrees of compactness
    * multistage (breakpoint) contour specification

NOTE: SimultaneitySpecifier to formalize patterned simultaneities in a single
voice. Applies to output of registration specifier. (Intervals greater than an
octave are possible only when output from registration specifier.) Implements
list of 0 or more LMRSpecifier objects in parallel to acciaccatura specifiers.

[3: generalized successive transforms in a single voice] First version with
six input parameters: list of 1 or more pitch-class sets; list of 0 or more
pitch-class transforms (including arbitrary permutation); optional repartition
specifier; list of 1 or more registration specifiers; list of 0 or more
simultaneity specifiers; list of 1 or more rhythm-makers. Figure outputs
crossproduct. Repartition specifier allows differently sized output cells.
Registration specifiers allow disjunct register.