1. basic process that develops internally the release points of a series of
notes held constant in their span durations. as an example a series of
consecutive notes carry the span duration of a quarter each. small rests begin
gradually to consume the end parts (or possibly the begin parts) of each span.
eventually larger rests consume the end (or begin) parts of each span. at quick
or moderate tempi the effect is controlledly to change the degree of legato
between successive notes. at slower tempi the effect is to change the weight or
color of individuated one-note events. the process need not carry the affect of
interpolation: discrete changes in the durations of the end-part rests will
cause correspondingly discreet changes in the quality of connectedness or
disconnectedness between successive notes. written-out legato control internal
to a line. || variation scales all or part of such a line with accelerandi or
ritardandi. || variation effects the process in chunks of 4 - 15 notes per
stage with other material intervening between each stage.

2. the notes of these legato-controlled lines can be slurred together into
groups.

3. there's a type "span modulation" available within these legato-controlled
lines. observe first that each span comprises a "sounding" part and an
(optional) silent part; then it is clear that these legato-controlled lines are
just those lines in which the ratio between the sounding and silent parts vary
between spans. then a technique available is suddenly to shrink the duration of
each span down to that of only the sounding part of the current span. so the
name of the technique is something like '(subito) span adjustment'. and
duration of either the sounding part or silent part of the current span can be
acquired as the duration of the spans that follow after. an important
consequnce of this type of span adjustment is the immediate installation of
legato from note to note immediately after.

4. there's another type of line available as a result of the independent
control of the sounding and silent parts of each span: successions of notes in
which the sounding part of each span is kept constant while span duration is
made to vary. tuplet monads make the notation of all cases possible.

5. an antecedent / consequent variation pattern may be derived from the
independent control of sounding and silent span parts described here. and that
is the statement of a phrase two times such that attack times repeat exactly
but that the sounding durations of the first phrase are considerably shorter
than those of the second phrase, or vice versa. attack point constancy with
sounding part variation.

6. first voice in running figuration over the course of approximately a wide
octave centered in, for example, the fourth octave. second voice introduced as
interrmittent conccurrent attacks also in the fourth octave though always below
the note currently sounding in the upper voice strictly to avoid voice
crossing. color variation follows from written duration variation of the notes
in the lower voice. upper voice is a stream and lower voice is a
rest-interpolated line. || second version develops internally the durations of
the notes of the lower voice. from coequal in duration to the notes of the
upper voice to three or four times the duration of the notes in the upper voice
and back again. || third version develops internally the written durations of
the notes of the upper voice while keeping constant the span durations of the
notes of the upper voice. (denote by 'span duration' the duration of a note
added to the durations of the any rests that follow the note.)

7. there's a certain type of contour application that's interesting. a
sinus-type contour given by [..., 0, 1, 0, -1, 0, 1, 0, -1, 0, ...]. has a
certain feeling in the hand. can probabaly be played almost always with a
single hand (which means that two different versions of the figure can be
played against in each in the same rhythm or in contrasting rhythms). probably
pivots around the thumb. is relatively wide figuration but is not a type of up-
or down-arpeggiation. and is centered on a single octave. although register
interpolation can be applied and the whole thing can move gradually up or down.
call this something like "sinus contour".

8. (legato) parallel dyads. in the simplest case parallel thirds, sixths,
fourths or fifths. seconds and sevenths are also interesting and absent from
the tonal repertory. parallelism can be diatonic, chromatic, mixed. primary
attraction is that the technique can be truly legato even in a single hand (at
least when kept to the interval of at most a sixth). notes all carry equal
duration and move uniformly up or uniformly down in the base case. || second
version snakes the train of parallels intervals both up and down over the
course of the figure, though always overly relatively small intervals to ensure
the efficacy of the legato. || third version inserts some longer notes, though
still tutti legato. || fourth version slurs groups together. || fifth version
interpolates rests after some dyads. || sixth version interpolates rests after
all dyads. || seventh version combines from all of these together. || there's
an open question as to the pitch field that underlies the dyads (and therefore
controls their successive qualities).

9. chordal up-parallelism and chordal down-parallelism. three or more pitches
in the parallelized chord. preferrably five or six. spacing as tight as
possible. can work extremely well in the very low registers.

10. then there's the question of how to work with (probabaly arpeggiated)
ostinati. in the base case the ostinati are probabaly legato. variations treat
the notes of the ostinati with different values of interporlated rest. may be
enough just to ensure pitch continuance in one or more other voices during all
or part of the life an ostinato. differently pitched ostinati can also
overlap. there needn't be harmonic motion between the ostinati if the notes of
the ostinati are taken from a (tightly spaced) string. if the overlapping,
different-pitched ostinati comprise notes of (slightly) different durations
then there's the possibility of using contrasting slur types to shape
progression of ostinati from one to the next. in this case the ostinati proceed
according to two voices moving slowly in a type of macrohocket. || second
version adds a third voice in pointillist counterpoint to the pair of voices
that carry the ostinati.

11. contrasting slur types. first version sets just two slur types against each
other. perhaps solid versus dashed. or perhaps two different types of dashed
slur. probably the greater the gapping in the slur type the greater the degree
of gapping between the notes the slur governs. first version deploys the slur
types in alternation. || second version overlaps (momentarily) the slur types.
|| third version layers (continuously) the slur types. || a compositional
question arises immediately as to the relationship between the piece's special
slur types and the piece's explicitly legato-controlled lines. are some (or
all) of the special slur types set equal to some of the legato-controlled
lines? or not?

12. spans with durations equal to a whole note or more but with a very short
sounding parts. special type of jewel that will let shine the durationcolor of
each span.

13. trills internal to any of the special types of legato-controlled lines
described here.

14. rate-controlled trills.

                                  * MOMENTS *

1. two too-long notes in the middle register. perhaps just an ascending major
second. strking when they occur just after more elaborate figuration in the
upper or lower registers.

2. runaway trill. runaway double trill.

3. a section of nothing but overlapping durationcolored reiteration pedals.

4. silence-delimited repeated lone bird call in extreme upper register.

                                   * GOALS *

1. pervasive durationcolor.

2. pervasive orchestration by register.

                         * OTHER THINGS IN THE PIECE *

1. tempo changes, metric modulations, accelerandi, ritardandi.

2. mostly senza pedal to hear durationcolor differences as clearly as possible.

3. strikingly large durations of single pitches and dyads (rather than of
very large chords or clusters).

4. durationcolored reiteration pedals.